KWartzLab Society Inc. 
======================
Minutes of Meeting
------------------

# Metadata
* Type of Meeting: Board of Directors
* Date: Wednesday, September 9, 2009
* Time: 1930 EDT
* Location: Boehmer Box, 283-106 Duke Street West, Kitchener

BOARD MEMBER2
      
* Present: Cedric Puddy, Eric Gerlach, Darin White, Robert Gissing, Ben Brown, Stephanie Smith
* Late: 
* Absent: Alexandra Dysinski
* Quorum: Yes (6/7)

OTHERS

* Kwartzlab Society Members: Bevan Lantz, James Bastow
* Guests: 

Distribution: To all Kwartzlab Society Inc. Board Members

-----------------------------------------------------------------------

These minutes are considered complete and correct.  Please advise the Secretary <secretary@kwartzlab.ca> of any errors or omissions.  Otherwise, these minutes will be considered an accurate record of the discussions. 


Proceedings:
==============

1. Call to order
----------------
The President, Eric Gerlach, called the meeting to order at 1948 EDT, and the Secretary, Stephanie Smith, recorded the minutes. A quorum of directors was present, and the meeting, having been duly convened, was ready to proceed with business.


2. Approval of the agenda
-------------------------
The printed agenda was amended to reflect the agenda posted to the wiki. The Agenda was presented by the President, and approved by general consensus of the Board.


3. Approval of the 2009-08-18 Board Meeting Minutes
----------------------------------------------------
The 2009-08-18 Board Meeting Minutes were approved by general consensus of the Board.


4. Approval of the 2009-09-04 Board Meeting Minutes
---------------------------------------------------
The 2009-09-04 Board Meeting Minutes were approved by general consensus of the Board.


5. Report from the Treasurer
----------------------------
Ben Brown provided a budget report & last month's bank statement (see attached). We've come in under budget so far.


6. Old Business
---------------

  6.1. Insurance
  --------------
  Eric Gerlach presented to the Board that there is no update regarding   
  Insurance.
  
  ACTION: Eric Gerlach, Robert Gissing & Ben Brown will submit the 
  insurance paperwork, and arrange monthly payments for the policy.

  6.2. Buildout
  -------------
  
    * Security
    James Bastow presented to the Board a summary of his plan for the 
    space's physical door security. He is prepared to immediately take 
    the project over from Michael Kowalski. The initial system will meet
    the following minimal design goal:
    
      - token swipes, strike unlocks, access is logged
    
    The initial system will have no storage ability, but it will be 
    networked. Access logs can either be saved to a USB thumb drive, or 
    emailed. 
      
    We should be able to use a generic door strike, bringing the price 
    down to less than $200.00 RFID tokens will range in price from 
    approximately $1 to approximately $3 per unit. The more expensive 
    tokens offer additional (challenge & response) security.
    
    Once he has RFID reader & door strike, James can have the initial
    system installed within a couple of days.
    
    There was a DISCUSSION regarding ways we might be able to increase
    the security of the door itself. 
    
    ACTION: Robert Gissing will draft a letter to Kaplay, advising him 
    that we are making a permanent installation which we intend to take 
    with us when we leave.
    
    * Ceiling
    Eric Gerlach reported to the Board that the he & Cedric have 
    finished cleaning the ceiling.
    
    * Windows
    Darin White reported to the Board that he has finished cleaning the 
    window panes.
    
    Robert Gissing reported to the Board that he will replace the broken
    window panes over the coming weekend, and also that he intends to 
    paint the interior window trim black.
    
    ACTION: Robert Gissing will replace broken window panes over the 
    coming weekend.
    
    ACTION: Robert Gissing will paint the interior window trim.
    
    * Painting
    There was a DISCUSSION regarding progress made in painting the 
    space. 
    
    DECISIONS
      1. The board agreed by general consensus to not purchase 
      additional primer until the current bucket is actually emptied.
    
    * Furniture and what we want in the space
    No further business to discuss.
    
    * Flooring 
    There was a DISCUSSION regarding plans for the space flooring. Jeff 
    Schmidt has offered to donate some tiles, however we are still 
    waiting to receive them. If we haven't received the tiles by the 
    time we're ready to work on the kitchen floors, we may just paint 
    them as a temporary measure.
    
    ACTION: Robert Gissing will contact Jeff regarding the floor tiles.
    
  6.3. Logo
  ---------
  No update on logo.
  
  
  6.4. Website/mailing lists
  --------------------------
  ACTION: Ben Brown will update his website template to include the new 
  logo, and post the template online for our review.
  
  6.5. Reimbursement for Mark Sherry
  ----------------------------------
  DECISIONS
    1. Motion Passed: Be it resolved that Kwartzlab Society Inc. will 
    reimburse Mark Sherry for his dry ice purchase
    
      Motion Moved by: Robert Gissing
      Motion Seconded by: Eric Gerlach
      In Favour: 6
      Opposed: 0
      Abstained:
  
  6.6. Grand opening
  ------------------
  
    * Party
      o Alcohol
      Darin White presented to the Board that we have received our 
      liquor license for the Grand Opening Party.
      
      o Fire Code 
      There is no further business related to Fire Code.
      
    * Other events 
    There is no further business related to other events.
    
    
  6.7. Converting club members to corporate members
  -------------------------------------------------
  DECISIONS
  
    1. Motion Passed: Be it resolved that James Bastow is admitted to 
    membership in Kwartzlab Society Inc.
  
      Motion Moved by: Eric Gerlach
      Motion Seconded by: Darin White
      In Favour: 6
      Opposed: 0
      Abstained:
  
  
  6.8. Engaging politicians & municipalities
  ------------------------------------------
  There was a DISCUSSION regarding what overtures have been made to 
  local politicians and municipal groups. Invitations for the mayors 
  should be hand delivered on Friday. 
  
  ACTION: Eric Gerlach will update the mayoral invitations to just list 
  the mayors.
  
  ACTION: Darin White will post an announcement listing our upcoming 
  speaking engagements & presentations.
  
  ACTION: Darin White will give Robert Gissing a copy of his 
  presentation deck.
  
  
  6.9. SoOnCon Update
  -------------------
  Darin White presented to the Board an update on the SoOnCon event. 
  There is an organization call-in everything Thursday evening, which we 
  are all welcome to participate in.
  
  
  6.10. Hackerspaces.org Call-in
  -----------------------------
  Eric Gerlach presented to the Board a summary of previous week's 
  Hackerspaces.org call-in, which he and Darin White participated in.
  
  He reviewed two ideas that Pumping Station 1 shared, which we may want 
  to consider for Kwartzlab as well:
  
  1. Hosting an all-night hackathon, wherein people can come with their
  laptops and work on software projects.
  
  2. Hackers-on-a-Train, a hackerspace "con" to take place on AmTrak, as 
  it travels through hackerspace towns in the US.
  
  There was a DISCUSSION on the importance of connecting with other 
  hackerspaces. Darin White will be visiting hacDC in October; we may 
  want to send him with some sort of token "Kwartzlab" gift.
  
  
  6.11. Bylaws to approve for general meeting
  -------------------------------------------
  There was a DISCUSSION regarding the current draft of the bylaws. 
  There are a couple changes which have all ready been discussed, but 
  don't yet appear in the draft:
  
    - If the board raises the initial or monthly dues by more than 10%, 
      members must ratify within 30 days
    - Changed quorum to 10 members or 1/4, which ever is higher
    - Hiatus -- specify start & and date for hiatus
    
  There was a detailed DISCUSSION regarding how to deal with members
  whose accounts are in arrears. This is only a concern if it becomes a 
  chronic problem. Bylaws should explicitly specify that in order for an 
  account to be brought up to date, all previous months must be paid in 
  full.
  
  There was a discussion regarding whether or not members on hiatus 
  should retain voting rights during their hiatus.
  
  DECISIONS
  1. Motion Passed: Be it resolved that the Kwartzlab Society Inc. 
  bylaws are:

  Definitions

  "members meeting" shall also include annual meetings and general 
  meetings.

  New membership approval process

  1. Persons wishing to become members of KwartzLab must file an 
  application with the Board. The Board shall determine the form of the 
  application. The Board shall notify the membership via the "Members" 
  mailing list when they receive such an application.

  2. A person who has fulfilled the requirements of paragraph 1 may be 
  admitted to membership by a resolution of Board at a meeting duly 
  called for that purpose. The Board must give notice to the "Members" 
  mailing list at least five calendar days before the resolution is to 
  be considered by the Board.

  3. A person admitted to membership by the Board of Directors shall 
  have no privileges until their initial dues and first monthly dues are 
  paid. The Board may by resolution set a schedule for pro-rated dues 
  for the first month of membership, based on the date of the member's 
  approval.

  Dues

  1. The Board of Directors may by resolution set the dues for the 
  corporation, which may be either or both of:

    a) Initial dues, i.e. dues which are payable before a person can 
    become a member;

    b) Monthly dues, i.e. dues which are recurring and payable on the 
    last day of each month (for the following month).

  2. If the Board passes a resolution which raises the initial or 
  monthly dues by more than 10%, that resolution is effective only until 
  confirmed at a general meeting of the Corporation duly called for that 
  purpose. Such a meeting must be held within 30 days of the initial 
  adoption of the resolution. If the resolution is not confirmed within 
  30 days, the resolution is rendered invalid.

  Meetings of Members

  1. KwartzLab may give notice of any members meeting via email to the 
  address on record with the corporation as recorded on the "Announce" 
  mailing list, and this shall constitute sufficient notice for the 
  meeting.

    a) Notice of any members meeting shall be given at least ten 
    calendar days before the meeting.

    b) Notice for annual and general meetings shall contain the agenda, 
    or a link to the agenda published on the KwartzLab website, for the 
    meeting.

  2. The quorum for members meetings shall be ten members or one quarter 
  of the total membership of KwartzLab Society Inc., whichever is 
  higher.

  3. Members may not vote via proxy at members meetings.

  Membership hiatus

  1. A member may apply to the Board to have their membership placed on 
  hiatus for a period of no less than two months. Such application must 
  specify the start and end dates of the hiatus. The Board may approve a 
  member's hiatus by resolution at meeting of the Board.

  2. During the time a member is on hiatus, they are not required to pay 
  dues, nor shall they have any of the privileges afforded a member, 
  except for the privilege of voting at members meetings called after 
  the hiatus was requested.

  3. A member may voluntarily terminate their hiatus at any time by 
  notifying the Board of Directors they wish to do so and paying their 
  monthly dues for the current month. No discounts shall be given for 
  partial months.

  Suspension or Termination of Memberships

  1. Kwartzlab may suspend or terminate the membership of a member by 
  passing a special resolution (2/3 vote) at a general meeting duly 
  called for that purpose. A suspended member shall have no privileges 
  of membership during the time of the suspension. All dues shall 
  continue to be assessed for suspended members.

  2. A resolution under paragraph 1 is not valid unless:

    a) Prior written notice is given to the member setting forth the 
    grounds on which the suspension or termination is sought;

    b) This notice is given to the member no fewer than 10 calendar days 
    before the general meeting called to consider the resolution of 
    suspension or termination;

    c) an opportunity is given to the member to appear, either 
    personally or by a person authorized under the Law Society Act to 
    represent the member, to make submissions at the general meeting 
    called to consider the resolution of suspension or termination of 
    that member.

  3. Suspension for Minor Infractions

    a) The Board of Directors may suspend a member for a term of no 
    greater than one month by resolution at a meeting of the Board duly 
    called for that purpose if:

       i) The member is in arrears on their monthly dues.

    b) A resolution under sub-paragraph a) is not valid unless:

       i) The member is given notice setting forth the grounds on which 
       the suspension is sought (email notice shall be sufficient);

       ii) This notice is given to the member no fewer than five 
       calendar days before the meeting of the board of directors called 
       to consider the resolution;

       iii) an opportunity is given to the member to appear, either 
       personally or by a person authorized under the Law Society Act to 
       represent the member, to make submissions at the meeting of the 
       board called to consider the resolution.

    c) If the member suspended under this paragraph rectifies all the
       condition(s) in sub-paragraph a) for which they were suspended, 
       the Board shall forthwith take any action required to restore 
       that member's status.
  
 Motion Passed by: Eric Gerlach
 Motion Seconded by: Ben Brown
 In Favour: 6
 Opposed: 0
 Abstained   
    
   6.12.. Presentations before Municipal Councils 
   ---------------------------------------------
   No new business.
   
   
7. New business
---------------

  7.1. "Charter Members" who haven't paid September Dues
  ------------------------------------------------------
  There was a lengthy discussion regarding what to do with pending 
  "Charter Members" who have paid the initial sign-up fees, but have not 
  completed the application to become members of Kwartzlab Society Inc., 
  nor have paid September dues. 
  
  It was noted that the signup fee equals 2 months membership dues. As 
  such, any pending member who waits more than 2 months to bring their 
  membership up to date has financial incentive to reapply as a new 
  member anyway after Oct 31. 

  DECISIONS
  1. Motion Passed: Any email addresses on the members list which do not 
  belong to active members of Kwartzlab Society Inc. will be immediately 
  removed from the mailing lists with notice.
    Motion Moved by: Darin White
    Motion Seconded by: Robert Gissing
    In Favour: 6
    Opposed: 0
    Abstained:
    
  2. Motion Passed: Be it resolve that, subject to ratification at a 
  general member meeting, the opportunity for charter members to join 
  the corporation as full members shall end Oct 31. After that date, 
  they must re-apply as new members.
    Motion Moved by: Eric Gerlach
    Motion Seconded by: Stephanie Smith
    In Favour: 6
    Opposed: 0
    Abstained:
  
  ACTION: Stephanie Smith will post an announcement to the members list, 
  stating that all non-member accounts will be unsubscribed from the 
  lists.
  
  ACTION: Stephanie Smith will remove all non-member accounts from the 
  mailing lists and members group on the website.
  
  7.2 Reimbursements
  ------------------
  DECISIONS
  1. Motion Passed: Be it resolved that Ben Brown is reimbursed $441.26 
  for dump/disposal fees, primer, print, tape, drop-sheets; U-Haul truck 
  rental, and 30x internal and external keys (for general membership).
    Motion Moved by: Eric Gerlach
    Motion Second by: Darin White
    In Favour: 5
    Opposed: 0
    Abstained: Ben Brown
    
  2. Motion Passed: Be it resolved that Eric Gerlach is reimbursed 
  $18.11 for 7x external keys (for board members).
    Motion Moved by: Stephanie Smith
    Motion Second by: Ben Brown
    In Favour: 5
    Opposed: 0
    Abstained: Eric Gerlach
    
  3. Motion Passed: Be it resolved that Stephanie Smith is reimbursed 
  $58.80 for NUANS search & report.
    Motion Moved by: Eric Gerlach
    Motion Second by: Darin White
    In Favour: 5
    Opposed: 0
    Abstained: Stephanie Smith
    
  7.2. General Members Meeting Agenda & Announcement
  --------------------------------------------------
  DECISIONS
  1. Motion Passed: Be it resolved that the first general members 
  meeting will be held at the Headquarters of the Corporation (which 
  will be 106-283 Duke Street West, Kitchener Ontario at that time), at 
  1930EDT. The Agenda for this meeting will be:
  1. Approve Bylaws
  2. Ratifying Charter Members Resolution
  
    Motion Passed by: Eric Gerlach
    Motion Seconded by: Cedric Puddy
    In Favour: 5
    Opposed: 0
    Abstained:
  
  
8. Next board meeting
---------------------
It was agreed by general consent that the next Board meeting will be held at 283 Duke Street West at 1930EDT on Wednesday September 16, 2009. 

Cedric Puddy & Darin White announced that they will be unable to attend this meeting, due to a prior commitment.

ACTION: Darin White will submit an update on SoOnCon prior to the next Board meeting.


9. Adjournment
--------------
The meeting was adjourned by general consent of the Board at 2127EDT.