KWartzLab Society Inc. 
======================
Meeting Minutes
----------------------

# Metadata
* Type of Meeting: Board of Directors
* Date: Thursday, July 22, 2010
* Time: 1930 EDT
* Location: Kwartzlab Society Inc. Head Quarters
* Meeting #39

BOARD MEMBERS

* Present:  Alex Williams, Ben Brown, Cedric Puddy, 
		Eric Gerlach, Paul Walker, Robert Gissing, 
		Stephanie Smith
* Quorum:   Yes (7/7)

OTHERS

* KwartzLab Members: Alexandra Dysinski, Jessica Clayman,
    Doug Moen, Bevan Lantz, Bernie Rohde (arrived late),
    Chris Brunner (arrived late)


Distribution: To all KwartzLab Society Board Members

-----------------------------------------------------------------------

These minutes are considered complete and correct.  Please advise the Secretary <secretary@kwartzlab.ca> of any errors or omissions.  Otherwise, these minutes will be considered an accurate record of the discussions.

Proceedings:
==============

1. Call to Order
----------------

Board Chair Eric Gerlach called the meeting to order at 1936 EDT. Secretary Stephanie Smith recorded the minutes. A quorum of directors was present, and the meeting, having been duly convened, was ready to proceed with business.

2. Approval of the Agenda
-------------------------

The Chair presented the Agenda to the Board. The Board unanimously agreed to postpone the following New Business items to a later date:

  * Trillium Grants
  * Sign
  * Board Procedures
  
  
3. Approval of Previous Meeting Minutes
---------------------------------------

The Secretary presented minutes for the following meetings:

  * June 24 Board Meeting Minutes
  * June 29 Board Meeting Minutes
  * July 8 AGM Minutes
  * July 9 Board Meeting Minutes
  
Be it resolved that the minutes for the June 24, June 29, and July 9 Board Meetings, and the minutes for the July 8 Annual General Meeting, be accepted as presented.

  So moved by the Chair
  Seconded by the Secretary
  In favour: 6
  Opposed: 0
  Abstained: 1
  Motion Carries
  
4. Report from the Treasurer
----------------------------

The Treasurer presented the Board with a current account statement and financial report. This report was accepted unanimously by the Board.

5. Report from the Art Wall Curator
-----------------------------------

Jessica Clayman addressed the Board regarding the status of her Art Wall project. She will be hanging a new exhibit, by Craig Musselman in August, and is pursuing a lead for September's exhibit. Two artists have been lined up for a double hanging in October.

Jessica also indicated that she will be posting an announcement to the members' list, to keep everyone appraised of what's happening with the Art Wall.

6. Report from the President
----------------------------

The President made a couple of brief announcements to the Board. 

He attended the open house at TreeHaus, a co-working space which has opened downtown Kitchener. KwartzLab first met the people behind TreeHaus at the TedX Waterloo event. They took inspiration in what we've built, and applied some of those ideas to a professional environment. TreeHaus is exploring the possibility of holding regular "open nights" (similar to KwartzLab's TON events), and would like to do so on a night which does not conflict with our own.

The President also talked about Rob Green's Dalek project. Rob has agreed to bring the Dalek to KwartzLab for the July 27 TON. Gus said he will call Rogers Community Television, to see if they want to film the event.

The President also briefly mentioned that discussions regarding this year's SoOnCon have started up again. He will be talking with Seth (of Site3) about this in more detail at the Site3 open house.

There was a brief discussion regarding KwartzLab's involvement in SoOnCon versus organizing a KwartzLab-specific con event, and when the ideal time to hold such an event would be. Preference was given for early September.

7. Old Business
---------------

  7.1. Website
  ------------
  
  Ben Brown indicated that there have been some unspecific complaints
  regarding the performance of the website. Unfortunately, because no 
  formal complaints have been received, with no specific details 
  regarding what's"broken", no action can be made at this time. The 
  Board stressed the need for better communication, especially where 
  "bug reports" are concerned. Stephanie Smith will attempt to follow 
  up on these issues.
  
  Ben Brown further indicated that the reason he hasn't made progress 
  on the website overhaul is because he does not like the Drupal 
  framework. He indicated that he would like to switch the site to 
  WordPress instead. As our most popular content is the blogs, having 
  a framework which is more blog-focused may better suit our needs. 
  Additionally, some of our bloggers are considering setting up their 
  own personal WordPress-based blogs. By using WordPress ourselves, 
  we'll be able to seamlessly aggregate their content on our site.
  
  There was a brief discussion regarding the functionality which would
  be lost with a move to WordPress -- calendars, event sign-ups, etc.
  Ben will try implementing these using third-party services.
  
  ACTION 39.1 on Steph Smith: Replace staging site with WordPress 
  ACTION 39.2 on Ben Brown: build new site in WordPress 
  
  7.2. Health & Safety Committee
  ------------------------------
  
    7.2.1. Update for action 36.1 on Ben Brown: Activate the Nokia 
    phone with a pay-as-you-go SIM
  
    Ben Brown indicated that he has purchased pay-as-you-go minutes, 
    but has not yet activated the phone. He will bring in the minutes, 
    and the SIM, and Eric Gerlach will complete the activation.
    
  7.3. Workshops
  ----------------
  
    7.3.1. Update for action 27.3 on Eric Gerlach: Read through 
    insurance policy and figure out workshops and instructors. 
    
    Outstanding. 
    
  The Board briefly discussed workshops as a possible revenue stream 
  for KwartzLab, and reviewed the various tax and insurance 
  implications for the benefit of the new Directors.
  
  There was a brief discussion regarding how to encourage more 
  workshops to happen in the space. 
    
  7.4. Maker Faire Detroit
  ------------------------
  
  Ben Brown reported to the Board that 7 KwartzLab members are coming 
  to Maker Faire Detroit, and all of them have volunteered to staff 
  the KwartzLab booth. 
  
  Ben further indicated that he is soliciting projects and demo ideas, 
  to help make our booth interactive. He has decided against 
  electronic kits, as Mitch Altman will have that well covered. Andrew 
  Mackie may do a stained glass demo.
  
  Ben also announced that he will be representing KwartzLab at the 
  Hackerspaces panel.
    
8. New Business
---------------

  8.1. Alarm System and Anti-Burglary System
  ------------------------------------------
  
  The President informed the Board that we have had at least one 
  (interrupted) break-in attempt. 
  
  There was a detailed discussion regarding how best to increase our 
  physical security, and better monitor the space. The following items 
  were identified for immediate action:
  
  1) A dead-bolt needs to be installed on the boiler room door.
  
  2) A switch needs to be added to our main door, which will notify 
  Directors if the door is opened from the outside with a card swipe.
  
  3) A camera needs to be installed to record traffic outside our 
  front door. This camera should also be clearly labelled, to deter 
  mischief.
  
  Ben Brown, Eric Gerlach, Cedric Puddy, Robert Gissing, and Chris 
  Brunner all volunteered to implement better security and monitoring 
  systems. Ben Brown and Robert Gissing indicated that they all ready 
  have relevant equipment.
  
  The Board identified the security camera as the top priority -- this 
  needs to be installed within the week.
  
  ACTION 39.3 on Ben Brown: install webcam security cam outside our 
  front door 
  
  8.2. Marion Call Concert
  ------------------------
  
  Motion: Be it resolved that the Board approves a potential Marion 
  Call concert, in our space, open to the public
  
    So moved by Ben Brown.
    Seconded by Cedric Puddy.
    In favour: 6
    Opposed: 0
    Abstained: 0
    Motion Carries.
    
  ACTION 39.4 on Robert Gissing: contact Marion Call regarding the 
  possibility of doing a concert at the Lab.
  
  
  8.3. Returning Members (Application/Vetting Process & Fees)
  -----------------------------------------------------------
  
  The Board discussed in detail various ways of dealing with returning
  members, and their implications. While we want to be as welcoming as 
  possible to returning members, and ensure that re-admission is a 
  smooth process, we also want to discourage members from coming and 
  going on any sort of frequent or casual basis. Our budget depends 
  upon having a predictable income. 
  
  The Treasurer indicated that he has all ready been approached by 
  members, asking to only pay for months when they use the lab. At our 
  current numbers, we cannot sustain that sort of "pay-as-you-go" 
  arrangement, and so any special consideration awarded to returning 
  members needs to guard against that.
  
  Motion: Be it resolved that when a member gives up their membership, 
  and then returns, they will have to re-pay the initial 
  contributions.
	
	So moved by the President.
	Seconded by Alex Williams

	Discussion: The Board was reminded that members have all ready 
	withdrawn from KwartzLab, with the intent of returning at a later 
	date. These members have done so with the full expectation of 
	re-paying the $100 initial contribution.
	
	In favour: 7
	Opposed: 0
	Abstained: 0
  Motion Carries.
  
  8.4 KwartzLab Store
  -------------------
  
  Paul Walker reported to the Board that he has created a Shopify 
  storefront for KwartzLab. Shopify provides an attractive and 
  professional-looking storefront, which has a number of useful 
  features. However, it costs $25/month.
  
  The Board briefly discussed other, cheaper options. We could run 
  free, open-source e-commerce software directly on our website, such 
  as OSCommerce or ZenCart.
  
  ACTION 39.5 on Steph Smith & Paul Walker: make shop.kwartzlab.ca 
  happen 
  
  Ben Brown reported to the Board that he has established distributer 
  accounts with Arduino and other vendors, in his own name. He should 
  be able to transfer these to KwartzLab. Ben also indicated that 
  there is a sizeable market for Arduino products in the area, which 
  we could market to.
  
  8.5. KwartzCon
  --------------
  
  The Board continued the earlier discussion regarding a 
  KwartzLab-specific con event, possibly timed to coincide with the 
  anniversary of our opening.
  
  November was suggested, so as not to conflict with Hallowe'en (which 
  is a busy time for some members).
  
  Specific plans will be put on hold until SoOnCon is decided.
  
  8.6. People's personal belongings and projects
  ----------------------------------------------
  
  The Board agreed to postponed this discussion until the next Board 
  Meeting.
  
  8.7. Heavy Equipment
  --------------------
  
  The Board held a lengthy discussion regarding what's needed to open 
  up heavy equipment use to the membership. Specifically:
  
  1) Ventilation
  2) Hydro
  3) H&S Procedures
  
  Hydro: We do not have enough circuits available in the Tool Room. We 
  have either a dead or a deactivated transformer. Access to the hydro 
  is through the room on the other side of the Art Wall; we need 
  access to investigate further.
  
  H&S Procedures: Jessica Clayman reported that the Tool Committee has 
  started compiling an asset list, but as far as she knows, this is 
  not completed yet.
  
  There was a detailed discussion regarding the current Health & 
  Safety procedures, and whether or not they are appropriate for our 
  needs.
  
  The Board decided unanimously that the current Health & Safety 
  procedures need to be revised, and that as the Board of Directors 
  (and only the Board of Directors) are personally liable in case of 
  an accident, it should be up to the Board to draft the new 
  procedures.
  
  The Board will schedule a special meeting to decide what the Health 
  & Safety Procedures & Policies should be. This meeting may either be 
  held in camera, or with members present in silent audience. While 
  the Board wishes to be transparent, given the magnitude and personal 
  liability involved, the Board feels its important they are able to 
  arrive at a decision without undue influence from the membership. 
  
  Some specific points for consideration:
  
  We need to be careful with the language used in our Policies and our 
  discussions. We have been borrowing language from corporate Health & 
  Safety, which is inappropriate and misleading for our situation. We 
  can not "instruct" anybody on how to use equipment, nor formally 
  certify anybody's qualifications, and we need make that clear in 
  what we say and do.
  
  The purpose behind our Health & Safety policies are to encourage 
  safe practices by our members and guests, and to ensure that the 
  equipment is reasonably maintained and cared for. The purpose of any 
  Health & Safety policy is never to cover our ass; no amount of 
  diligence will reduce the Directors' liability in the event of an 
  accident.

  The Board was reminded that KwartzLab has purchased DOLI. As long as 
  the Board doesn't do something stupid, DOLI will take care of 
  everything in the event of a suit. 
  
  With regards to assessing competency before allowing members to use 
  tools, an apprenticeship model was suggested, involving some sort of 
  orientation for the Tool Room and specific tools.
  
  The Board recognizes a need for individual pieces of heavy equipment 
  to have a "custodian", who is responsible for the equipment's care 
  and feeding, and who is familiar with its safe-use. Any policies 
  regarding custodianship need to account for absentee custodians, and 
  recognize that ultimately the Board is responsible for all 
  equipment.
  
  The Board also stressed that communication between the Health & 
  Safety Committee, the Tool Committee, and the Board needs to 
  improve.
  
  8.8. Mark Smith's Hiatus
  ------------------------
  
  The Board reviewed Mark Smith's membership status. According to the 
  Secretary's records, Mark Smith went on 4-month hiatus beginning 
  January of this year. He ended that hiatus early, and resumed normal 
  membership in March. On April 8, the Treasurer contacted Mark 
  regarding late dues. Mark replied with an email which the Board 
  understood to be a withdrawal notice. 
  
  Mark has not paid dues since March, 2010, and he is not currently on 
  hiatus. He is welcome to apply for re-admission at any point.
  
  8.9. Ubuntu LAN Party
  ---------------------
  
  Motion: Be it resolved that non-member guests are allowed to attend 
  the August 7th Ubuntu LAN Party.
  
  So moved by Robert Gissing.
  Seconded by Ben Brown
  
  Discussion: The Board was reminded that while Ubuntu-users are 
  well-meaning, they are filthy animals, and they must help out with 
  any after-party clean-up.
  
  The Board also affirmed that the motion allows guests of members, 
  not the general public.
  
  In favour: 6
  Opposed: 0
  Abstained: 0
  Motion Carries.
  
  8.10. UnLondon
  --------------
  
  Chris Bruner asked to address the Board regarding his recent visit 
  to London's new hackerspace. The Board agreed by general consent.
  
  Chris recently attended an organizational meeting for the UnLondon 
  hackerspace. He reported that they have a physical space, and 
  approximately 50 members paying $20/month. They do not yet have much 
  in the way of tools or other resources. UnLondon has partnered with 
  the University of Western, and is exploring avenues for corporate 
  sponsorship.
  
  Chris also reported that UnLondon is interested in establishing some 
  sort of formal relationship with KwartzLab, possibly in the form of 
  an exchange (members of one space could have complimentary access to 
  the other). As their dues are so much cheaper than our own, and they 
  don't vet members, there may be concerns that the exchange would not 
  be equitable.
  
  UnLondon is planning on coming down to one of our TON events.
  
9. New Action item review
-------------------------

ACTION 39.1 on Steph Smith: Replace staging site with WordPress
ACTION 39.2 on Ben Brown: build new site in WordPress
ACTION 39.3 on Ben Brown: install webcam security cam outside our front door 
ACTION 39.4 on Robert Gissing: contact Marion Call regarding the possibility of doing a concert at the Lab. 
ACTION 39.5 on Steph Smith & Paul Walker: make shop.kwartzlab.ca happen 

10. Adjournment
---------------

The meeting was adjourned at 2206EDT by the general consent of the Board.