KWartzLab Society Inc. 
======================
Meeting Minutes
----------------------

# Metadata
* Type of Meeting: Board of Directors
* Date: Thursday, August 5, 2010
* Time: 1930 EDT
* Location: Kwartzlab Society Inc. Head Quarters
* Meeting #40

BOARD MEMBERS

* Present:  Eric Gerlach, Cedric Puddy, Stephanie Smith, Alex 
            Williams, Paul Walker
* Absent:   Robert Gissing, Ben Brown
* Quorum:   Yes (5/7)

* KwartzLab Members: Andrew Mackie, Darcy Casselman, Alexandra 
            Dysinski, Jessica Clayman

Distribution: To all KwartzLab Society Board Members

----------------------------------------------------------------------

These minutes are considered complete and correct.  Please advise the Secretary <secretary@kwartzlab.ca> of any errors or omissions.  Otherwise, these minutes will be considered an accurate record of the discussions.

Proceedings:
==============

1. Call to Order
----------------

Board Chair Eric Gerlach called the meeting to order at 1955 EDT. Secretary Stephanie Smith recorded the minutes. A quorum of directors was present, and the meeting, having been duly convened, was ready to proceed with business.

2. Approval of the Agenda
-------------------------

The Chair presented the Agenda to the Board. The Secretary recommended postponing the following items, as they involved to Directors who were not present:

  Approval of the Previous Minutes
  Report from the Treasurer
  Report from the President
  Health & Safety Committee: Set Board Procedure and Committee 
    Appointments
  Trillium Grants
  KwartzLab Sign
  Marion Call Concert
  Review Existing Board Procedures
  KwartzCon
  
The agenda, along with these postponements, were approved by the general consent of the Board.

3. Old Business
---------------

  3.1. Website and Mailing Lists
  ------------------------------
  
  Update for action 39.1 on Steph Smith: Replace staging site 
  with WordPress:
  
  Stephanie Smith reported to the Board that she has replaced the
  staging site with a WordPress install, and provided Ben Brown
  with the necessary information for accessing it.
  
  Update for action 39.2 on Ben Brown: build new site in 
  WordPress:
  
  Pending.
  
  3.2. Health & Safety Committee
  ------------------------------
  
  Update for action 36.1 on Ben Brown: Bring in sim and 
  pre-paid phone card; Eric will activate Nokia phone:
  
  Pending. Alex Williams indicated that he also has
  an unused cell phone, which he could donate to the lab.
  
  ACTION 41.1 on Alex Williams: bring in phone
  
  3.3. Workshops
  --------------
  
  Update for action 27.3 on Eric: Read through insurance policy 
  and figure out workshops and instructors:
  
  Pending.
  
  3.4. Maker Faire Detroit
  ------------------------
  
  Member Andrew Mackie provided the Board with an overview of
  Maker Faire Detroit, and KwartzLab's activities therein.
  
  The Faire itself was amazing -- lots of good Maker energy.
  
  Flashy and noisy exhibits received the most attention. While
  the KwartzLab booth wasn't particularly noisy, we were situated
  beside booths which were, and benefitted from that.
  
  Take-aways were also popular -- project sheets, stickers, and 
  buttons. T-shirts were not popular for anybody, although less
  traditional swag was. I.e., ties.
  
  While the exhibit was very hands-on (attendees were able to pick
  up and examine demoed projects), attendees were careful handling
  things.
  
  i3 hosted a Hackerspaces social Friday evening, which provided
  us an opportunity to see their space. In addition to tools and 
  a machine room, they have a clean room, craft room, and chem lab.
  We are jealous.
  
  There was a brief discussion regarding the sorts of novel swag
  KwartzLab could prepare for the next Maker Faire, including
  branded ties and vibrating underwear. Concerns were expressed 
  regarding the sort of ties we might make. Eric is too good for
  clip-on neckware.
  
  3.5. Need of alarm system and anti-burglary system
  --------------------------------------------------
  
  Update on action 39.3 on Ben Brown: install webcam security 
  cam outside our front door:
  
  Pending. A sign has been posted outside of our unit, indicating
  that the area is under camera surveillance.
  
  3.6. Kwartz Store
  -----------------
  
  Update on action 39.5 on Steph Smith & Paul Walker: make 
  shop.kwartzlab.ca happen:
  
  Pending. Stephanie Smith reported that she has installed 
  OSCommerce, and provided Paul Walker with the access information.
  Paul Walker reported that until we have an initial inventory,
  there isn't much that can be done with the storefront.
  
  There was a brief discussion regarding how to best build up
  an initial inventory. Arduinos are the most promising market.
  
  Motion: Be it resolved that the Board approves the purchase of 10 
  arduinos for Kwartzlab store.
  
  So moved by Paul Walker.
  Seconded by Alex Williams.
  In favour: 5
  Opposed: 0
  Abstained: 0
  
  Motion carries.
  
  Alexandra Dysinski recommended JW Smith (out of Mississauga) as an 
  import broker.
  
  ACTION 41.2 on Alex Williams: order arduinos

  ACTION 41.3 on Steph Smith: check Ladyada pricing
  
  3.7. How can we start fully using the Heavy Equipment Lab
  ---------------------------------------------------------
  
  The Board reviewed the current obstacles towards making full use
  of the Heavy Equipment Lab:  
  
  * ventilation
  * electricity
  * health & safety
  
  i) Ventilation
  As this is a project which we can likely "DIY", we need somebody to
  take ownership of it. As there were no volunteers at the meeting,
  the Board agreed to solicit the membership. Before doing that, 
  however, the present Board agreed that Robert Gissing should be
  contacted, to see if he was interested in taking this on.
  
  ii) Electricity
  There are a number of electrical projects related to the Heavy 
  Equipment Lab. Unfortunately, we do not have any members who are
  (a) qualified, and (b) available to tackle these. The Board 
  recognizes that somebody will need to be brought in. Both Ben Brown
  and Robert Gissing have indicated at previous meetings that they 
  know electricians who could do the work. The Board will move to 
  proceed on this at the next meeting, when they are both present.
  
  iii) Health & Safety
  Further discussion has been postponed to a dedicated meeting.
  
  ACTION 41.4 on Steph to email Gus re: ventilation project.
  
4. New Business
---------------

  4.1. People's personal belongings and projects
  ----------------------------------------------
  
  Alexandra Dysinski addressed the Board, regarding the outcome of
  the recent email thread regarding personal projects and 
  interpersonal communication in the space. Some suggestions had been
  made regarding what an appropriate code of conduct regarding
  "other people's property" in the space might be.
  
  There was a detailed discussion as the Board attempted to clarify
  what specific issue or problem they were attempting to address.
  Examples of recent inter-personal breakdowns were described:
  
  i) Members rearranging the layout of shared space, despite a request 
  not to do so by other members
  
  ii) Members moving other members' projects/materials without prior 
  consent
  
  In both cases, the Board believes the issue can be abstracted to one
  of communication break-down. The Board had a detailed discussion 
  regarding what are reasonable expectations in a shared environment 
  like KwartzLab; no consensus was reached, which highlighted the 
  importance of clear communication, strong community building, and 
  acting always in good faith.
  
  The Board also recognizes that in a "hands-on" environment like
  KwartzLab, it bears being explicit regarding what is "hands-off".
  
  The Board also wants to stress that the incumbency of communication 
  goes both ways:
  
  i) If a member is leaving something which must not be touched, this 
  needs to be clearly communicated.
  
  ii) If a member needs to move something which is not theirs, this 
  also needs to be clearly communicated.
  
  While the Board recognizes that not everything warrants 
  communication, there was disagreement regarding where a line might 
  be drawn. Ultimately members will have to decide for themselves 
  what's important and what requires communication. There will be 
  disagreements in practice, and the Board hopes that members will be 
  able to give each other the benefit of the doubt when those 
  disagreements arise.
  
  The Board feels very strongly about establishing a culture where
  members try to work together (however that may be), rather than 
  laying down specific rules which govern how people interact. The 
  Board discussed what this culture might look like, and ways to 
  promote it within our community. One suggestion was to collect and
  share stories which illustrate members communicating, sharing, and 
  problem-solving together. We want to focus on the positive, and find 
  examples of things that have worked well.
  
  There was a tense moment of drama, posturing, and bared teeth, which 
  passed with neither bloodshed now fæces-flinging. Also, Eric is very 
  eloquent.
  
  ACTION 41.5 on Paul to generate some story examples re: good 
  communication, plus an option friendship collage.

  4.2. New Applicant: Ralph Janke
  -------------------------------
  
  Motion: Be it resolved that Ralph Janke is admitted to membership in 
  KwartzLab Society Inc.
  
  So moved by Eric Gerlach
  Seconded by Alex Williams
  In favour: 5
  Opposed: 0
  Abstained: 0
  
  Motion carries.
  
  4.3. Ubuntu Global Jam
  ----------------------
  
  Darcy Casselman addressed the Board regarding the upcoming Ubuntu
  Global Jam. Although he will not be present for the day himself,
  he would like to organize a public even in KwartzLab, which would
  be hosted by member Ralph Janke. 
  
  Motion: Be it resolved that the Board approves a public Ubuntu
  Global Jam event, to be held at KwartzLab for the afternoon and
  evening of August 28.
  
  So moved by Darcy Casselman.
  Motion sponsored by Paul Walker.
  Seconded by Cedric Puddy.
  In favour: 5
  Opposed: 0
  Abstained: 0
  
  Motion carries.
  
5. Action Item Review
---------------------

27.3 on Eric: Read through insurance policy and figure out workshops and instructors

39.2 on Ben Brown: build new site in WordPress

39.3 on Ben Brown: install webcam security cam outside our front door 

39.4 on Robert Gissing: contact Marion Call regarding the possibility 
of doing a concert at the Lab. 

39.5 on Paul Walker: make shop.kwartzlab.ca happen 

41.1 on Alex Williams to bring in phone

41.2 on Alex Williams order arduinos

41.3 on Steph check Ladyada pricing

41.4 on Steph to email Gus re: ventilation project. Does he want to do it?

41.5 on Paul to generate some story examples re: good communication, plus an option friendship collage.