Date: August 18th, 2009
Time: 7:30 PM
Location: KwartzLab, 283 Duke St W, Unit 106, Kitchener, ON

Attendance: 

BOARD MEMBERS

Present: Eric Gerlach, Darin White, Robert Gissing, Ben Brown
Absent: Steph Smith, Cedric Puddy, Alexandra Dysinski
Quorum: Yes (4/7)

Others: Katina Somers

Proceesings:

1. Call to Order

Eric Gerlach called the meeting to order at 19:40EDT, and Katrina Somers
recorded the minutes. A quorum of directors was present, and the meeting,
having been duly convened, was ready to proceed with business.

2. Approval of the Agenda

The agenda was approved by general consent.

3. Buildout deadline and Grand Opening

There was a discussion about the best dates for the finish of the buildout and
the Grand Opening.  It was felt that we needed to have two weeks between the
end of buildout and the Grand Opening, in case buildout ran over.  It was
proposed that the Grand Opening be held on October 1st, 2009, thus making the
end of buildout September 17th.

MOTION:  Be it resolved that the target date for the end of the buildout of the
space be September 17th, 2009, and that the Grand Opening shall be held on
October 1st, 2009.

Mover: Darin
Seconder: Gus
Result: Passed unanimously

4. Liquor Licence for Grand Opening

It was reported to the board that there are two types of liquor licenses: sale
and no sale.  If we use a "sale" license we can sell beer as a reception or a
fundraiser, however we cannot advertise if it is a reception.  A "no sale"
license means we have to buy the liquor and give it away for free (open bar).

It was reported to the board that Natalie would figure out how much beer we
need to buy.

It was noted that if we wish to sell alcohol at the event, it would reduce our
liability to have a SmartServe certified bartender.

ACTION Eric said he would ask his brother about being a bartender for the
event.

There was a question about giving complementary tickets to dignitaries and/or
members, Eric was unsure about the legalities of this.

ACTION Eric will look into complementary beverages.

5. Getting Charter Members into the Corporation

In regards to a membership agreement, it was discussed that we should ask what
other hackerspaces are doing.  Eric noted that he had sent off an email about
this, but had not received a response yet.  It was discussed that we should
have some sort of agreement drafted that includes language about returning
keys, key deposits, access to the space, etc.

It was discussed that we should have a get together on September 1st to take in
the first months dues from the membership, have them sign any agreement we
have, and have the Board vote them in as members.

MOTION: Be it resolved that the charter applicants shall begin paying regular
dues as of September 1st, and that those who have paid their initial dues
($100) plus their September membership fees ($50+GST) will have the opportunity
to be converted to full members and receive their keys.

Mover: Eric
Seconder: Ben
Result: Passed unanimously

6. Budget

It was agreed that there should be no spending without approval.  All those who
wish to be reimbursed for their purchases must notify Ben before the purchase
is made.  Ben will keep track of all purchases, and will check the budget
before approving expenses.  Anyone who purchases without notifying Ben is not
guaranteed to be reimbursed.  It was also discussed that receipts must be
itemized, and have GST and PST clearly noted on them.

MOTION: Be it resolved that the buildout budget be $800.  Be it further
resolved that Eric, Gus, and Ben have the authority to spend/reimburse money up
to that $800 for the purposes of the buildout.  Be it further resolved that Ben
shall be the contact for all transactions, and must approve all spending before
it is made.  Be it further resolved that the Board be notified of all
expenditures for the buildout.

Mover: Gus
Seconder: Darin
Result: Passed unanimously

7. Adjournment

Meeting adjourned by general consent.
