KWartzLab Society Inc. 
======================
Meeting Minutes
----------------------

# Metadata
* Type of Meeting: Board of Directors
* Date: Thursday, April 29, 2010
* Time: 7:30pm
* Location: KwartzLab Society Inc.
* Meeting #31

BOARD MEMBERS

* Present:  Eric Gerlach, Alexandra Dysinski, Robert Gissing, Stephanie   
  Smith, Cedric Puddy, Ben Brown, 
* Absent: Darin White
* Quorum: Yes (6/7)

OTHERS

* KwartzLab Members: James Bastow, Bevan Lantz, Darcy Casselman, Doug Moen, 
  Pawel, Kyle Spaans, Chris Brunner, Matt Smith

Distribution: To all KwartzLab Society Board Members

-----------------------------------------------------------------------

These minutes are considered complete and correct.  Please advise the Secretary <secretary@kwartzlab.ca> of any errors or omissions.  Otherwise, these minutes will be considered an accurate record of the discussions.

Proceedings:
==============

1. Call to Order
----------------

The President Eric Gerlach acted as Chair for the meeting, and called the meeting to order at 2000 EST. The Secretary, Stephanie Smith, recorded the minutes. A quorum of directors was present, and the meeting, having been duly convened, was ready to proceed with business.

2. Approval of the Agenda
-------------------------

The agenda was presented by the President.

Alexandra Dysinksi asked to move her New Business item to the beginning of the meeting.

The President also requested to move Old Business items Door Access Control and Space Expansion to the beginning of Old Business.

The agenda was approved, with these requested amendments, by the general consent of the Board.

3. Pre-Emptive New Business: Request for Event
-----------------------------------------------

Eric Gerlach declared himself to be in conflict of interest for this item. The Board asked that he remain as chair.

Alexandra Dysinski reported to the Board that she is working on a large project, which will involve the help of a number of teenage volunteers. She asks the Board for permission to hold a one-time informational meeting for her volunteers and their parents, in the space. The meeting would take place next Friday evening, and would last for only 30 minutes.

Both Eric Gerlach & Alexandra Dysinski have recused themselves from the vote.

MOTION: Be it resolved that the Board approves Alexandra Dysinski's use of the space for a one-time informational meeting of her Anime North volunteers and their parents.

So moved by Stephanie Smith.
Seconded by Ben Brown.

In Favour: 4
Opposed: 0
Abstained: Eric Gerlach; Alexandra Dysinski

Motion Passed.

4. Memberships

  4.1. New Members
  ----------------
  
  4.1.1. Rob Adler
  
    MOTION: Be it resolved that Rob Adler is admitted to membership in 
    KwartzLab Society Inc.
  
    So moved by Robert Gissing.
    Seconded by Ben Brown.
    
    In Favour: 6
    Opposed: 0
    Abstained: none
    
    Motion Passed.
    
  4.1.1. Joel Larose

    MOTION: Be it resolved that Joel Larose is admitted to membership in 
    KwartzLab Society Inc.

    So moved by Robert Gissing.
    Seconded by Ben Brown.

    In Favour: 6
    Opposed: 0
    Abstained: none

    Motion Passed.
  
  4.2. Membership Hiatus
  ----------------------
  
  MOTION: Be it resolved that Kyle Spaans' membership status be put on 
  hiatus from May through August 2010.
  
  So moved by Alexandra Dysinski.
  Seconded by Cedric Puddy.
  
  In favour: 6
  Opposed: 0
  Abstained: none

  Motion Passed.

4. Pre-Emptive Old Business
---------------------------

  4.1. Space Expansion
  --------------------
  
  4.1.1. Plan of action for the Tool Room
  
  There was a detailed discussion regarding the need for an organized plan 
  of action regarding the tool room, in order to make it useable.
  
  The first priority is to clean the walls -- the blistered material which 
  is peeling off of the wall is an agitant. 
  
  Additional work that needs to be completed:
  
    * general cleaning of the walls and floor
    * electrical work needs to be evaluated/brought up to code
    * lighting needs to be upgraded
    
  Robert Gissing stressed the need to appoint somebody to oversee the 
  necessary work, and to set a deadline for when it needs to be completed.
  
  Ben Brown volunteers to oversee the work in the Tool Room. James Bastow 
  volunteers to help oversee as well.

  MOTION: Be it resolved that the blistering wall be scraped before any 
  other work is begun in the tool room.
  
  So moved by Alexandra Dysinski.
  
  Discussion: The Board agrees that while this is a priority, it does not 
  require a decision by the Board. It just requires action.
  
  Alexandra Dysinski withdraws her motion.
  
  There was further discussion regarding power tools being moved into the 
  room. There are not yet any Health & Safety procedures in place for 
  evaluating suitable knowledge. Additionally, we do not have an up to date 
  Asset List. Insurance should also be brought up to date regarding what 
  tools we have. Although we don't expect anything we have will change our 
  premiums, we did promise to keep them appraised of any new acquisitions.
  
  Alexandra Dysinski and Ben Brown both indicated that they have access to 
  WHMIS and other "shop room safety" resources, which they can bring in for 
  us.
  
  ACTION 31.1 on Ben Brown: Organize clean-up of tool room.
  
  4.2. Door Access Control
  ------------------------
  
  4.2.1. Update on action 29.4 on Ben Brown: give James Bastow the RS485 
  controller he needs for the front door access control.
  
    Completed.
    
  James Bastow reported that he has a laptop in place, to run the software 
  needed for the access control system. He will need a network drop for the 
  laptop.

  The Board briefly discussed the urgency in getting the door access 
  control installed. Specifically, there have been concerned expressed 
  regarding the Building Superintendent enjoying free, unannounced access 
  to the new unit. While this is in contravention of our lease agreement, 
  the Board was reminded that we do not yet have a signed copy of that 
  lease agreement.

  ACTION 31.2 on Eric Gerlach: Draw up a letter indicating we need signed 
  copy of the lease, and that we will present them with cheques once we 
  have the signed lease in hand.


5. Report from the Treasurer
----------------------------

The Treasurer present the Board with current financial statements, which were accepted by the general consent of the Board.

MOTION: Be it resolved that Darin White will be reimbursed $17.00 for dumping fees incurred on behalf of the corporation, and that Ben Brown will be reimbursed $31.00 for dumping fees incurred on behalf of the corporation.

So moved by Stephanie Smith
Seconded by Robert Gissing

In Favour: 5
Opposed: 0
Abstained: Ben Brown

6. Remaining Old Business
-------------------------

  6.1. Website and Mailing Lists
  ------------------------------
  
  6.6.1. Update for action 13.2 on Ben Brown: convert website design to 
  drupal template
  
    On-going: Ben reported that we now have a staging site set up, for 
    testing the new template.
  
  6.2. Health & Safety Committee
  ------------------------------
  
  6.2.1. Update for action 27.1 on Robert Gissing: Find and mount H&S 
  bulletin board
  
    No update.
    
  6.2.2. Update for 29.2 on Ben Brown: bring in phone for H&S; activate 
  with Eric's SIM
  
    Ben reported that he did not have a suitable phone after all. Pawel, 
    Kyle, and Doug each indicated that they may have one.
    
  6.2.3. Update on 29.3 on Cedric Puddy: bring in bulletin board for H&H
  
    Completed: Alexandra Dysinski reported that she has
    found a suitable cork board, and it is currently hanging in the 
    kitchen.
    
  6.2.4. Board Procedure and Committee Appointments 
  
  Eric Gerlach indicated that he has not yet had a chance to locate the 
  Health & Safety procedure and appointment records.
  
  6.3. Workshops
  --------------
  
  6.3.1. Update for action 27.3 on Eric: Read through insurance policy and 
  figure out workshops and instructors.
  
    Pending: no update.
    
  6.3.2. Member Statement from Jessica Claymen
  
    The President read Jessica Claymen's statement regarding the recent 
    Arduino Workshop (APPENDIX B).
    
    There was a detailed discussion regarding the distinction between 
    KwartzLab sanctioned workshops, versus unsanctioned workshops organized 
    by members or third parties, and how promotions and pricing might be 
    handled for each.
    
    In the specific case of the recent Arduino workshop, although the 
    workshop was billed as a "KwartzLab" workshop, the profit went to the 
    organizers, not KwartzLab. There was a disconnect between participants 
    expectations of where their money was going, and where it actually 
    went. In this case, although the workshop was billed as a "KwartzLab" 
    workshop, it in fact was not.
    
    It is important to be clear regarding whether a workshop is officially 
    a "KwartzLab" event, or merely an event organized by one of our 
    members, for legal, tax, and insurance purposes. The distinction 
    ultimately comes down to how money flows -- if KwartzLab collects fees, 
    and then pays organizers for their time and materials, it is a 
    KwartzLab event. If organizers collect fees, and then give a portion to 
    KwartzLab (as a donation or fee), then its not a KwartzLab event. If it 
    is a KwartzLab event, our insurance will cover it. If its not a 
    KwartzLab event, our insurance will not. Additionally, if its a 
    KwartzLab event, then any workshop fees are taxable.
    
    There was further discussion regarding whether or not any profit should 
    be made from workshops. A number of members expressed the preference 
    that workshops only operate on a cost-recovery basis.
    
    There was further discussion regarding the value of feedback on 
    workshops. We are all inexperienced in organizing these sorts of 
    events, and should expect that there are areas where we can improve. 
    Good feedback is helpful in identifying those areas, but shouldn't be 
    used to penalize organizers. 
    
    The discussion was capped due to time.
    
    6.4. Ubuntu Lucid Lynx Release Party
    -----------------------------------
    
    Darcy reported that he has ordered a cake for the party, will be 
    burning LE CDs again. It should be awesome.
    
    There was a brief discussion regarding some of the network glitches at 
    the last release party, and how they may be alleviated this time. 
    
    6.5. GST Return
    ---------------
    
    6.5.1. Update for 29.1 on Eric Gerlach: get GST return for Ben Brown.
    
     Completed.
     
    Ben reported that the GST has been completed, and we owe the government 
    $37.00.
    
    6.6. Member Statement Regarding Art Wall
    ---------------------------------------
    
    The President informed the Board that he has received an Anonymous 
    Statement regarding the Art Wall.
    
    The Board held a lengthy discussion regarding whether or not to accept 
    an anonymous statement, and whether the statement should be heard in 
    camera. There were a number of concerns regarding why a member might 
    want to make their statement anonymously, and whether or not that would 
    (or should) impact the Board's reception of the statement. A number of 
    directors indicated that while they were open to hearing an anonymous 
    statement, they had reservations against taking action based on an 
    anonymous statement.
    
    MOTION: Be it resolved that the Board will receive the submitted 
    anonymous statement.
    
    So moved by Alexandra Dysinski.
    Seconded by Cedric Puddy.
    
    Robert Gissing requests that a roll call vote for this motion.
    The Board accepts this request by general consent.
    
    Alexandra Dysinski: Yae
    Ben Brown: Yae
    Cedric Puddy: Yae
    Robert Gissing: Nay
    Stephanie Smith: Yae
    
    Motion carries.
    
    Anonymous Members Statement is attached as Appendix C.
    
    Robert Gissing provided additional comment regarding the current 
    exhibition of the Art Wall. The Art Wall is his personal project, but 
    the current exhibit was hung without his knowledge. He is disappointed 
    in how it transpired, but has all ready spoken to the involved parties 
    and is satisfied.
    
    There was a more general discussion regarding art in the space, and the 
    fact that not everybody is going to like every installation that's 
    hung, and that should be okay. Art can be controversial, but the Board 
    doesn't want to start vetting or censoring artists, or member projects.
    
    Eric Gerlach commented that he never thought he'd see a board meeting 
    turn in to an art critique.
    
    All art critiquing aside, the Art Wall in particular is the personal 
    project of one of our members, and that needs to be recognized and 
    respected. We have been very vocal about encouraging the do-acracy in 
    our space, and so its understandable if members aren't clear on which 
    things they can just do, and which things they can't. Better 
    communication will help. 
    
    ACTION 31.2 on Robert Gissing: post an email to the members' list, 
    clarifying the ownership and installation details of his Art Wall 
    project
    
7. Action Item Review
---------------------

  13.2 on Ben Brown: convert website design to 
  drupal template

  27.1 on Robert Gissing: Find and mount H&S 
  bulletin board
    
  29.2 on Ben Brown: bring in phone for H&S; activate 
  with Eric's SIM

  27.3 on Eric: Read through insurance policy and 
  figure out workshops and instructors.
  
  31.1 on Ben Brown: Organize clean-up of tool room.
  
  31.2 on Eric Gerlach: Draw up a letter indicating we need signed 
  copy of the lease, and that we will present them with cheques once we 
  have the signed lease in hand.

  31.3 on Robert Gissing: post an email to the members' list, clarifying 
  the ownership and installation details of his Art Wall project

8. Adjournment
--------------

The meeting was adjourned at 2152 EST.

  Motion Moved By: Ben Brown
  Motion Seconded: Stephanie Smith
  In Favour: 6
  Opposed: 0
  Abstained:
