KWartzLab Society Inc. 
======================
Meeting Minutes
----------------------

# Metadata
* Type of Meeting: Board of Directors
* Date: Thursday, December 23, 2010
* Time: 1930 EST
* Location: Kwartzlab Society Inc. Head Quarters
* Meeting #50

BOARD MEMBERS

* Present:   Alex Williams, Eric Gerlach, Cedric Puddy, 
		Robert Gissing, Paul Walker, Stephanie Smith
* Absent: 	Ben Brown
* Quorum:   Yes (6/7)

OTHER ATTENDEES

* KwartzLab Members: Darin White, Karl Williams, Alexandra Dysinski

Distribution: To all KwartzLab Society Board Members

----------------------------------------------------------------------

These minutes are considered complete and correct.  Please advise the Secretary <secretary@kwartzlab.ca> of any errors or omissions.  Otherwise, these minutes will be considered an accurate record of the discussions.

Proceedings:
==============

1. Call to Order
----------------

President Robert Gissing chaired the meeting, calling it to order at 1938 EST. Secretary Stephanie Smith recorded the minutes. A quorum of directors was present, and the meeting, having been duly convened, was ready to proceed with business.

2. Approval of the Agenda
-------------------------

The Chair presented the Agenda to the Board. The Board approved the Agenda by general consensus.

3. Report from the President
----------------------------

The President reported that he has been in contact with the TedXWaterloo team, and they are interested in the possibility of collaborating with KwartzLab in some way, for their March event. They were particularly interested in the SoOnCon badges which KwartzLab designed. 

There was a brief discussion regarding the feasibility on designing interactive badges for TedxWaterloo on such short notice. It would probably be possible, if we were to use this year's "The Next HOPE" badge as a starting point. Any badge design, however, would require money to produce, and KwartzLab is not in a position to donate those costs.

The President also reported that this year's Christmas Party was a success. The President was especially pleased with the number of non-member "friends of KwartzLab" who joined us, and with how they were welcomed by KwartzLab members.

4. Old Business
---------------

	4.1 KwartzLab Store
	-------------------
	
		4.1.1 Update for action 41.2 on Paul Walker: organize arduino 
		order for shop

		Paul Walker reported to the Board that it will be cheaper to 
		purchase arduinos through a Canadian retailer, rather than going 
		through the official distribution chain. The Board agreed through 
		general consensus that Paul could purchase arduinos through 
		whichever source he preferred.
		
	4.2. Heavy Equipment Lab
	------------------------
	
		4.2.1 Electrical Work
		
			Update for action 48.2 on Robert Gissing: get an additional 
			electrical work quote.
			
			Gus confirmed that Conestoga Electric would be coming in on 
			January 3rd to give a quote.
      
      He's also left messages with Steckly, but doesn't have an 
      appointment scheduled yet.
      
      Update for action 48.3 on Robert Gissing: get a list of actual 
      materials, so we can see what members can source.
      
      This item is pending additional quotes.
      
      Cedric Puddy reminded the Board that he can likely arrange a 
      donation of 2 gauge wire (cut to length).
      
  4.3. Health & Safety
  --------------------
  
    4.3.1 Update for action 49.1 on Stephanie Smith: Post proposed 
    policy to members' list.
    
    Completed; there was no substantial discussion on the list.
    
    Further activity is now pending the lawyer's review.
    
  4.4. Micro Mondays
  ------------------
  
  Paul Walker reported to the Board that it has been challenging 
  getting people out to Micro Mondays. 
  
  There was a brief discussion regarding how to increase awareness of 
  the event, and potential groups to target. The possibility of 
  holding one-off events, for specific groups and possibly on 
  location, was also discussed. 
  
  Paul indicated that Micro Mondays is being put on hold, while he 
  explores other formats for the event.
  
5. New Business
---------------

  5.1. kLARP Report
  -----------------
  
  Darin White presented the Board with his KwartzLab Location 
  Alternatives Research Project Report (see attached). 
  
  He reviewed his process for the project, and acknowledged that 6 
  weeks would have been better.
  
  Darin's findings showed that KwartzLab has a pretty sweet financial 
  deal with the current landlord; although the location isn't perfect, 
  there is nothing else on the market which can compete in terms of 
  price. If we want a better neighbourhood, or a building that's kept 
  in better repair, we will have to sacrifice a significant amount of 
  square footage.
  
  Darin further discussed how this was a valuable exercise, even if it 
  didn't lead to a better location for KwartzLab. It provided him with 
  an opportunity to connect with people in the community who KwartzLab 
  otherwise would not have met. These connections may lead to 
  interesting opportunities in the future. Darin also stressed that 
  being able to show people tangible things which KwartzLab does is 
  invaluable for people understanding what we're about.
  
  There was additional discussion regarding the difference between 
  leasing and owning property. Tentative interest was expressed 
  regarding KwartzLab owning property in the future.
  
  The Board thanks Darin White and his team for their many hours of 
  hard work compiling this research. The Board would also like to 
  thank Andrew Abouchar, Rod Reiger & Cheryl York for their invaluable 
  assistance during this process. Written letters should be sent to 
  each of them.
  
  Darin advised the Board that a decision regarding whether or not we 
  would pursue any of these opportunities should be made before the 
  end of January. The Board agreed by general consensus to make a 
  decision by January 7.
  
  5.2. Next Board Meeting
  -----------------------
  
  Eric Gerlach advised the Board that he would not be present for the 
  January 6 or January 20th Board meetings. There was a brief 
  discussion regarding whether the schedule should be changed, so that 
  Eric could attend one of the January meetings. It was agreed by 
  general consensus that it was more important to keep a consistent 
  schedule. No extra-ordinary business is expected to come up for 
  those meetings.
  
6. Action Item Review
---------------------

39.2 on Ben Brown: build new site in WordPress 
39.3 on Ben Brown: install webcam security cam outside our front door 
41.2 on Paul Walker: organize arduino order for shop
48.2 on Robert Gissing: get an additional electrical work quote.
48.3 on Robert Gissing: get a list of actual materials, so we can see what members can supply
45.2 on Ben Brown: post new budget to Board list for review. 
43.3 on Ben Brown: Sell Nokia on eBay 
50. Robert Gissing January 3rd Conestoga Electrical for site visit & quote

7. Adjournment
--------------

The meeting was adjourned at 2020EST, by the general consent of the Board.
